---
title: Jasmine Psaris
layout: single
author_profile: true
excerpt: whose contagious laugh and indomitable spirit echo in our hearts
permalink: /
hidden: true
---

# Scratch

Jasmine enjoyed showing off her [Scratch](https://scratch.mit.edu/)
coding skills to her classmates.  Her favorite creation was the [Cat
vs Mouse](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/27270597) game.
[Basketball Bonanza](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/37947366/) is a
lot of fun too.  Give them a shot and share your high score!

# Prezi

Jasmine created many presentations with [Prezi](https://prezi.com).
She began with a [timeline of her
life](https://prezi.com/b11vjggtgp-p/my-timeline/?present=1)
documenting her major milestones through April 2014.  In May, she made
a [presentation about Steve
Jobs](https://prezi.com/1pwbj8k_kl-0/steve-jobs/?present=1).  After
spending the first half of her 5th grade receiving treatment at [Queen
Mary Hospital](https://www8.ha.org.hk/qmh/), she returned to school
and designed another presentation about [why some languages become
extinct](https://prezi.com/jazichaxl0uc/why-do-languages-become-extinct/?present=1).

# Cally and Bean

To pass the time between during chemotherapy treatments in [Queen Mary
Hospital](https://www.ha.org.hk/qmh/)'s [Children's Cancer
Center](https://paed.hku.hk/services/public_area/service/UPAM_K8_PE_001_Ward_Info.pdf),
Jasmine enjoyed reading mystery novels.  Inspired to create her own,
she wrote three stories about best friends Cally and Bean (and a pet
hamster named Nams).  After drawing the illustrations, she worked with
her mother and father to publish the stories. _Cally and Bean: Middle
School Mysteries_ is available in
[English](https://www.amazon.com/Cally-Bean-Middle-School-Mysteries-ebook/dp/B077W1MH1T)
and [Traditional
Chinese](https://www.amazon.com/%E5%87%B1%E8%8E%89%E5%92%8C%E8%B1%86%E8%B1%86-Traditional-Jasmine-L-Psaris-ebook/dp/B08F6Z48RH).


# St. Baldricks

Jasmine is a [St. Baldricks](https://www.stbaldricks.org/) [honored
kid](https://www.stbaldricks.org/kids/jasminepsaris).  Over the past 6
years, [teams](https://www.stbaldricks.org/teams/jasmine) shaving in
Jasmine's honor have raised over $100,000 for pediatric cancer
research.

# Dragon Tales

The [Hong Kong International School](https://www.hkis.edu.hk/) "Dragon
Tales" publication honored Jasmine's time with the school by
dedicating two pages for her in the [winter 2017
issue](https://issuu.com/hkisadvancement/docs/final_hkis_dt_winter17_web/94).
The article includes many pictures of Jasmine enjoying time with her
friends and at school events.

# MSK Support

[MSK Kids](https://www.mskcc.org/pediatrics) [Child Life
Services](https://www.mskcc.org/pediatrics/experience/life-pediatrics)
program brought Jasmine joy during her final year in New York.  Upon
her death, an outpouring of support made [Jasmine's Giving
Page](http://mskcc.convio.net/goto/jasminepsaris) the [top funded
campaign in
2017](https://secure2.convio.net/mskcc/site/TR/GivingPages/AnnualGiving;jsessionid=00000000.app20018a?pg=complist&fr_id=2903).
Over $100,000 has been raised to support the MSK Kids Child Life
Services program.

# D10

Jasmine's fight caught the attention of four athletes competing in
[the D10](https://thed10.com/) to raise money for pediatric cancer
research.  After winning first place, they visited Jasmine's at home
and shared the good news and trophy.  The team renamed themselves "J's
Bulls", and even though Jasmine passed away before the next year's
event, they won first place again.  An [interview with the
team](https://thed10.com/blog/j-s-bulls-why-we-do-this-in-the-first-place)
documents why they trained so hard.  Sadly, the team captain, [Everett
Cole Watson](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=618505401),
passed away as well, leaving the team wondering if they should compete
again.  The team renamed themselves "E-J's Bulls" in memory of Everett
and Jasmine, dug deep, and [won the
competition](https://thed10.com/blog/the-d10-nyc-2019-yearbook) with
the three remaining athletes.
