---
title: "Memorial Service"
excerpt: "Presented by Jasmine's Dad at Hong Kong International School's Church of All Nations"
date: <span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2018-01-10 Wed&gt;</span></span>
categories: 
- speaches
tags: 
- memorial 
- hkis
---


# Intro

I'd like to start by thanking you for coming tonight.  Each of you has
provided friendship, love, support and comfort to Jasmine during her
journey. Your presence demonstrates the breadth of Jasmine's influence
as well as your compassion. Jasmine's passing is the catalyst which
brings us together.  But we would like to spend a few moments sharing
a few highlights of Jasmine's passionate, intense, creative and happy
life.


# Birth

Jasmine was born at 11:46 am on November 18, 2004 at Lenox Hill
Hospital, New York City.  She had a surprising head of wavy black
hair.  Perhaps we should not have been surprised - both of her
grandmothers have curly hair too.

Antai and I had long agreed that Jasmine would be her first name.  Her
Chinese middle name, however, was often debated.  My only requirements
were that it not start with a 'c', 'z', 'x', or 'q'.  When the nurse
came to fill out the birth certificate, we simultaneously said two
different middle names.  The nurse excused herself - clearly nervous
about getting entangled in a potentially explosive disagreement.  In
the end, Jasmine's Chinese relatives helped pick her middle name
'Linghui'.

At three months old Jasmine began attending House of Little People Too
day care on 90th street and Lexington.  According to her first report
card, her favorite song was 'Oowee Goowee Chicken Pie' by Kimmy
Schwimmy.  It was tough dropping her off at such a young age, but this
seemed to be the 'norm' for two working parents in New York City.


# Hong Kong

We moved to Hong Kong before Jasmine turned two, and learned that
there were no day cares in Hong Kong that accepted children so
young. The 'norm' in Hong Kong turned out to be hiring a live-in
helper.  Jasmine grew up at home with organized play dates until she
was old enough to attend Parkview International Preschool (PIPS).
Lucky for her, this was within walking distance from our
apartment. Jasmine enjoyed PIPS and enrolled in the bilingual -
English and Mandarin - class.

Jasmine always enjoyed story time before bed.  We started the Elephant
and Piggie series and progressed to Don't let the Pigeon Drive the Bus
and the Knuffle Bunny trilogy.  We credit Mo Willems with teaching
Jasmine how to read.


# Personality

As Jasmine matured, we soon realized that disciplining her was going
to be tough. No matter the threat, if Jasmine didn't want to do
something, there was no way to get her to do it - neither carrot nor
stick.  One Halloween night, while her brother prepared to leave for
trick-or-treating, we wanted the slow-eating Jasmine to finish her
shrimp.  We threatened that she would not be able to go
trick-or-treating until after she finished one more bite. Jasmine
decided the trade-off was not worth it, and refused to eat anything
more.  Antai and I gave in, and were prepared to take her
trick-or-treating.  But Jasmine refused to go because she did not eat
the shrimp.  There was no trick-or-treating that year.

Jasmine's fighting spirit was formed at a young age.  She was the only
girl in her bilingual nursery school class. According to her teachers,
she learned to handle a class of rowdy boys. She began taking
Taekwondo at 5 years old and, here too, was often the only girl in
class.


# HKIS

Jasmine joined Hong Kong International School (HKIS) when she turned 6
years old.  As the only girl in her PIPS class, no one stopped her
from walking away from activities.  But this would not fly in
kindergarten. The teacher soon informed us that circle time was for
everyone.

Jasmine enjoyed school - especially Math, Art, Recess and Physical
Education.  She spent her time at recess hanging from monkey bars.  We
were so proud to show off her calloused hands.  Though she did not
attend gymnastics class, she even learned how to do a back walkover at
recess.

Jasmine started swim classes on Saturdays.  She had trouble taking
direction from the female instructor so we took a break for a year and
tried again.  Upon her return, she seemed to have matured and enjoyed
swimming - or was it the male swim instructor?

Piano lessons soon followed and she enjoyed learning popular tunes
such as Mickey Mouse March, Rockin Robin, My Heat Will Go On and Heart
and Soul.

The years flew by as we accompanied her to swim meets, school field
trips and piano and Taekwondo exams. In second grade, Jasmine earned
the 'Safety Patrol', followed by 'Great Bus Manners' and 'Outstanding
Printing' awards.  In third grade, she became a 'Mathlete'.


# Summers

Jasmine spent her summers traveling between America and China,
visiting grandparents and taking classes. She improved her Mandarin
cultural knowledge attending the YK Pao School in Shanghai. Days were
filled with singing, calligraphy, paper cuttings and musical
instruments.

The summer after 3rd grade was extra special, as Jasmine traveled with
a school program to Hanghzhou, China by herself.  She was given the
opportunity to bargain for items either wanted for herself or for
presents. Upon returning, we were given gifts of a hand-powered fan, a
Chinese calligraphy bamboo scroll and this purple silk tie - by far my
favorite.

Like all summer trips back to America, 2014 included a visit to 'Camel
Beach' water park in the Poconos.  Jasmine was fearless.  She insisted
on going down rides that even her older brother wouldn't dare ride.
She was always proud to be one of the youngest riders on those slides.

When we returned to Hong Kong, however, she complained that her leg
hurt and was diagnosed with bone cancer.  Throughout treatment,
Jasmine continued to practice piano, study math, Skype with her
Chinese and English teacher and loved to read mysteries.  She studied
the mystery novels and identified the features that made them
irresistible.  Jasmine enjoyed coming up with hilarious plot twists
and 'hooks' to keep a reader's interest.  We suggested she write a few
of these down, and the result was 'Cally and Bean: Middle School
Mysteries'.  Jasmine was not only the author but also the illustrator.
By April the next year, she was back in school, happily reunited with
her friends, and ready for the level 3 ABRSM piano exam. To mark the
occasion, we visited the Hong Kong SPCA and adopted her cat Trixie.


# Reintegration

Jasmine spent all of fifth grade reintegrating into a typical
childhood routine.  Her curly hair returned. She regained control of
her right foot and recovered her status as a star 'four square' player
at recess.  She returned to Taekwondo and passed her red/black belt
exam.  She returned to the swim team and enjoyed competing in two swim
meets. She continued to study piano and took the level 4 ABRSM exam.
Jasmine started the year in band playing the clarinet and transitioned
to the oboe - earning the best double reed player award. Jasmine
continued to enjoy math and participated in Math Olympiad
competitions.  She wrote an essay for class about how integrating
Minecraft into class would help students learn. This essay combined
with publication of 'Cally and Bean' earned her the 'Future Games
Journalist' prize 'for her love of video games and writing'.

The highlight of fifth grade was Jasmine's new best friend - Summer -
who became her dedicated Egyptian Ratscrew (card game)
partner. Jasmine graduated Lower Primary School on Jun 15th 2016.

The summer of 2016 was spent building robots at Johns Hopkins Center
for Talented Youth program in Hong Kong.  Jasmine loves computers and
with guidance from her brother, Jasmine probably became Hong Kong's
best female Monster Hunter player.  She also played Minecraft with a
passion.  With trepidation we paid for an online Minecraft account so
she could play on popular servers. The purchase was some of the best
money ever spent.  We never saw Jasmine so animated and alive as when
she was logged into the Minecraft server while simultaneously chatting
with her friends and watching Dan TDM on YouTube.


# New York

Jasmine's transition to middle school was exciting - lockers with
padlocks, homeroom, a new campus and friends.  But just as
preparations were being made for the sixth grade trip to Beijing and
the Great Wall, scans revealed the cancer had returned and we moved
back to New York for treatment at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center. Jasmine looked forward to seeing her best friend Summer who
had moved back to America at the end of 5th grade.  On the day after
landing in New York, we rented a car and drove five hours to visit
Summer and carve pumpkins in Virginia. A few weeks later, Trixie
braved 16 hours in a plane's cargo hold to be re-united with Jasmine.

Between regular visits to MSK, Jasmine enjoyed life as a New Yorker.
Trips to museums and parks, riding buses and subways, and enjoying the
wide variety of American television: cooking competitions such as
Chopped and Baker vs Faker, American Ninja Warrior, Myth Busters,
Shark Tank and Dancing with the Stars.  We spent New Years in Times
Square and she stayed up through midnight - witnessing Mariah Carey's
disaster unfold in real-time.  Her passion for Minecraft continued and
she kept in touch with her Hong Kong friends by scheduling online
meetups during the brief hours when their schedules overlapped.

Upon returning to New York, Jasmine was automatically enrolled in Home
Instruction and was assigned the best teacher she ever had. Jasmine
adopted Susan as another member of the family and eagerly worked
through the 6th grade curriculum.  Including science with dad and math
with mom, Jasmine created a portfolio of work that easily qualified
her to begin seventh grade the next year.  She was even awarded an
'Above and Beyond' award from Home Instruction ' for recognition of
dedication, perseverance and hard work'. Jasmine spent the summer
completing an on-line Scratch programming class and earned an A+ for
her consistent perfect scores on homework and the final project.


# Delights

We filled her time with trips to the movies, visits to and from
friends, a trip to a haunted house, and many arts and crafts projects.
She used a glue gun to build a coin sorter from cardboard
pieces. Mystery novels and bedtime stories returned as a time of peace
and meditation. She baked cakes and rice crispy treats just to
decorate them with icing - giving them away to doormen and friends.

Where we once thought Jasmine was a math star - we soon learned that
she had an artistic bent as well. Yes, we knew her Pictionary skills
were amazing, and collected her art projects over the years, but it
wasn't until the Make-A-Wish Foundation representatives saw her
artwork that we considered her skills more than average.  We were
touched when Make-A-Wish offered to make a book of Jasmine's artwork
and poetry. Many of Jasmine's drawings have been laminated and are
hanging on our walls.  The book represents her skills as of a few
years ago.  Over the past year she also drew pictures of the Blue
Mosque in Turkey, the Lighthouse of Alexandria and the cover for the
October Home Instruction magazine.

She visited Yankee Stadium, met the manager Joe Girardi and got her
Yankees cap signed by Brett Gardner.  She celebrated her 13th birthday
and the exciting transition to being a teenager.  Jasmine understood
her time was limited and organized all the important things in her
life into different labeled zip-lock bags.  She created a box to hold
all of her treasures.  She was prepared for what was coming but
luckily never knew it when it arrived.

Jasmine's life was filled with unacknowledged challenges.  She pushed
through each hurdle as it appeared.  She knew she was going to die,
but never once asked what that would be like, or what happens after
death.  She spent her time focused on living.  She kept a notebook to
record everything she wanted to accomplish and challenged herself each
day to check them off - one by one.

Jasmine gave life everything she had. We’re so proud to be her
parents.  Just thinking of her, and looking at her cat Trixie remind
us how Jasmine's love improved the lives of many others. Through her,
we’ve learned how to appreciate life ourselves. Her strength,
fearlessness, and resiliency inspire us daily. We enjoyed her jokes,
her laugh, and her ability to beat us in every strategy game we
played. We enjoyed her artwork, handcrafts and video game knowledge
and skills. Just being with Jasmine made us the happiest people on
earth.


# We Remember Them

> <p class="verse">
> At the rising of the sun and its going down,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> At the blowing of the wind and in the chill of winter,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> At the opening of the buds and in the rebirth of spring,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> At the blueness of the skies and in the warmth of summer,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> At the rustling of the leaves and in the beauty of autumn,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> At the beginning of the year and when it ends,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> As long as we live, they too will live, for they are now a part of us,<br />
> as we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> When we are weary and in need of strength,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> When we are lost and sick at heart,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> When we have joy we crave to share,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> When we have decisions that are difficult to make,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> When we have achievements that are based on theirs,<br />
> we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> As long as we live, they too will live, for they are now a part of us,<br />
> as we remember them.<br />
> <br />
> &#x2013; by Sylvan Kamens and Rabbi Jack Riemer from The Union Prayer Book<br />
> </p>


<!----- Footnotes ----->

