---
title: "Quotes"
excerpt: "Quotes from Jasmine's Friends, Family and Teachers"
date: <span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2018-01-10 Wed&gt;</span></span>
categories: 
- quotes
tags: 
- memorial 
- hkis
---


# Summer Jeffery

> I was once told that life is unfair, and I blankly underestimated the
> power of these three words. Life is unfair because it will take away
> the most pure and genuine people too soon in this world of hate, love,
> war, and peace. One of these people was Jasmine Psaris; she was
> amazing in every way.
> 
> Jasmine was beautiful, smart, hilarious, thoughtful beyond anyone,
> creative and imaginative always making new pieces of art or something
> incredible to blow me away.  Out of everyone that I know she is the
> bravest and most courageous person I ever met.
> 
> I will never forget her smile and laugh because they both warm my
> heart and made me smile. She always carried the spirit of a fighter
> and the heart of an angel with her and gave me one thing that I can
> never repay her for: her friendship.
> 
> I was the one who got lucky because I had the honor of being Jasmine’s
> best friend.
> 
> &#x2013; Summer Jeffery, 5th grade classmate


# Ellie Chang

> 
> 
> Jasmine is my friend.  She is unrelentingly faithful, loyal and
> trustworthy. She never doubts me. She trusts me. Even after years of
> separation, on the day we met, she talked and played with me as if I
> were never gone. I could always trust her to keep my secrets because
> there was something about her.  Perhaps it was something about the way
> she talked. The way she laughed. The way her eyes glanced at me
> reassuringly. There was something so pure about her that immediately
> made me trust her. And she has never revealed any of my secrets and
> she has never betrayed me or left me for another friend. I feel
> ashamed and burdened with so much guilt because she always played with
> me but I didn’t always play with her. I wasn’t a loyal friend. But
> Jasmine saw past that and continued to be my friend. Even when I
> couldn’t match her loyalty and faithfulness she still played and
> laughed with me. She is still my undeniably loyal friend.
> 
> Her positivity is unyielding. When she didn’t smile I could see the
> mischief and laughter dancing in her eyes. As if she knew something
> funny that I didn’t. When she smiled, it was so genuine, so full of
> joy that I had to smile back. Even when I failed at something she
> would smile reassuringly and I would know she had my back.
> 
> She loved the world so much. Every little thing made her happy. When I
> went to New York we went to a Math Museum. I thought it would be a
> boring place filled with only numbers and words. But Jasmine smiled
> and told me that the Math Museum was different. That it was filled
> with amazing things. I could tell by her eagerness and her smile that
> it was something she loved. So we went to the Museum. And that
> experience was something I will never forget. I learned so many new
> things. About Geometry, Physics etc. But I had fun. So much fun. We
> rode on a boat over uneven shapes just to discover it was a very
> smooth ride. We sat in a chair that twirled around and around until I
> got so dizzy I almost fell out of it. And Jasmine was there with me
> for every one of those rides. She was there explaining the Math to
> me. She was there explaining how everything worked. She was there to
> show her love for that Museum.
> 
> When I went to her house I marveled at all the little trinkets and
> mechanisms in her room. When I was touching one, Jasmine gently told
> me that I should be careful with it. In her tone and words I saw she
> cherished every little trinket in her room. And I wondered how such a
> small thing could earn the love of something much greater than it. And
> I realized, it hadn’t earned the love, the love had been given. By
> someone who thought that everything on Earth should be loved. And who
> looked to share that love with others. And because she loved
> everything, she was constantly surrounded by things she loved which
> enabled her the ability to brave through the worst.
> 
> &#x2013; Ellie Chang, 2nd-4th grade classmate


# Jacqui Sparrow

> 
> 
> Jasmine was a little stubborn but smart and super fun. She always made
> us laugh with her witty comments. She was so fun to hang out with and
> I was really sad when she had to leave in 6th grade. It was quite
> sudden but hoped she would get better and come back to us. While she
> was getting treatment in NY, when our time zones matched, we would
> chat. Despite her worrying condition she never mentioned how bad it
> was and was so strong and she stayed just as stubborn but fun and cat
> loving. Jasmine will always live on in my heart. She taught me how to
> remain strong in tough situations and I will miss her dearly. I miss
> you Jasmine.
> 
> &#x2013; Jacqui Sparrow, 5th grade classmate


# Nicole Au

> Although I didn’t know Jasmine for a very long time, she has been one
> of the best friends I have ever had in my life. I remember when I
> first joined the school in the middle of fifth grade, I didn’t have
> any friends, and not many people were willing to be my friend yet, but
> Jasmine was the first to accept me and be my friend. She wasn’t like
> other girls I knew. She never complained about anything or cared about
> the unimportant things so many people devote themselves to now. Though
> she suffered from a medical condition, if I had never asked about the
> scar on her leg, she wouldn’t have told me, and I would never have
> known, because she never complained about it, or talked about it much.
> Jasmine was always there for me when I was struggling with problems
> with other friends, and always made me laugh everyday. I remember the
> last time I saw her as clearly as if it only happened yesterday. It
> was near the time of halloween, and I carved a pumpkin for the first
> time with her. We had a lot of fun taking turns cutting out pieces
> from the pumpkin, and watching it transform into a jack-o-lantern. But
> not long after we finished, Jasmine told me that she had to leave for
> the U.S., and I hadn’t expected her to mean she would leave that exact
> moment. I didn’t have time to prepare myself for this information, and
> before I knew it, she was gone. I remember seeing her drive away, but
> I didn’t remember saying goodbye. I never thought that it would be
> last time we would see each other again. Thinking back on that day, I
> regret not arriving at her house earlier, and I regret not saying
> anything to her before she left. But I know that Jasmine is now with
> Jesus, where she will have no pain or suffering, and I am assured that
> she is in good hands. Jasmine was a true friend. I treasure all the
> times we spent together, and I cannot thank her enough for being my
> friend, because without her, I wouldn’t be the person I am today. I
> will never forget her, and she will be an inspiration to me everyday,
> forever.
> 
> &#x2013; Nicole Au, 5th grade classmate


# Caitlin Lam

> 
> 
> Jasmine was a really smart and sweet girl and I was devastated when I
> heard about the news that she had passed away. I will never forget her
> laugh, her smile, her voice and all the memories that I have had with
> her.
> 
> I first met Jasmine at the 5th Grade Camp where we were assigned in
> the same cabin.  From then on, we became best friends.  Jasmine was a
> really good student in HKIS. During breaks in the 6th Grade, I would
> always look forward to talking with her and hanging out together. She
> really liked swimming and playing video games, I still remember the
> time when we were at camp and we would race each other in swimming. At
> my 11th birthday party, she solved a Rubic’s cube in minutes and that
> had all of us amazed.  Jasmine had Rubics cubes in all sizes and
> forms.
> 
> I begged my parents to go to New York this past summer to visit
> her. When the plan was finally confirmed, Jasmine and I freaked out
> and were spamming each other on whatsapp because we were so happy. As
> the days passed we grew more and more excited. When we got to New
> York, I stayed at Jasmine's house for five days and we had fun by
> going to different places in New York.  We also spent our days playing
> Minecraft and video games, making arts and crafts, hanging out with
> her cat Trixie and we even watched Minion 3 together. We went to a
> Math Museum and that was when I realized how good she was at math. She
> fought hard and I will always admire how strong and brave she was. I
> am really happy that I got to be Jasmine’s friend and I will miss her
> dearly and I will always remember her.
> 
> &#x2013; Caitlin Lam, 5th grade classmate


# Michelle Hoard

> Jasmine was a radiant, sarcastic, witty, and genuine young woman.  She
> made me smile and I have thought of her often since she left fifth
> grade.
> 
> Her book is still in my classroom and that part of her, her words and
> illustrations, will continue to live on throughout the years.  How
> incredible it is that child after child will read Jasmine's stories
> and that they will know her, just a bit.
> 
> &#x2013; Michelle Hoard, 5th Grade homeroom teacher


# Matt Lucas

> I will always remember the discussions we had during the Continuous
> Movement runs and her persistence; her leg would say no, but her heart
> would say yes.  She was such a clever and fun young lady.  Jasmine
> helped not only her classmates, but me as well, to redefine
> perseverance; for that, I will be eternally grateful.
> 
> &#x2013; Matt Lucas, P.E. teacher


# Brandon Little

> In August of her grade four year, 2014-2015, Jasmine Psaris entered a
> scary and uncertain future when her and her family discovered that she
> had cancer. However, she didn't let that get in the way of her
> passions: reading, writing, and computer programming. She made a habit
> of meeting her teacher online for lengthy chats about life, school,
> and what she was working on while she was away. While she was at home,
> she wrote a lot. She created a collection of stories that her and her
> dad published together. Anyone who read Jasmine’s Adventures of Callie
> and Bean knew that she was a talented writer. As that year went on,
> she was determined to go back to school. With the support of her
> loving parents, she made a courageous and brave return in April of
> 2015, happy to be with her classmates and eager to learn. Although
> Jasmine faced a very difficult time in her life, she revealed many
> great qualities. She was plucky, talented, and resilient. With the
> news of her passing in late November 2017, those who knew her will
> remember that she was a remarkable young girl.
> 
> &#x2013; Brandon Little, 4th Grade homeroom teacher


# Philip Ng

> <p class="verse">
> <br />
> Jasmine<br />
> <br />
> A girl of nine, an IV in her arm, leaned on the hospital bed.<br />
> Facing the Skype camera with a cheerful smile,<br />
> She opens the Chinese text.<br />
> Together we read and read,<br />
> And then, with a clear voice, she asks,<br />
> Wu laoshi, how’s life at HKIS?<br />
> <br />
> I say, It is early in the morning, students play four square and tag.<br />
> I say, They feed the carp fish with tiny pieces of bread,<br />
> I say, They shout hello to every friend they meet,<br />
> And then, I say, they enter their homeroom with their backpacks.<br />
> <br />
> I wish to be there for sure, she says.<br />
> No more sadness, she says.<br />
> That's the joy in life I would have, she says.<br />
> And then, at ten, she came back…..<br />
> <br />
> Sixth and seventh grades come<br />
> With laughter; the joy in life she hoped for,<br />
> Surrounded by family and friends,<br />
> And all who loved her.<br />
> And then……<br />
> <br />
> It seems she is still around,<br />
> Reminding us of the thankfulness of grace,<br />
> And the importance of each precious moment of life,<br />
> And how to live with love and faith.<br />
> <br />
> &#x2013; Philip Ng, Chinese Studies teacher<br />
> </p>


# Jacky Shuhu and Chao Aiyi

> Jazz,我又走神了,龙头开着,水哗哗地流。想起你给我的节水“箴言”,尤其是那句
> “著名”的“上肥皂的时候记得关水”记忆 的片段如水般流淌。两岁的时候在香港
> 某个海滩边,拿牢Mr Sushi大嚼冰淇淋,5岁在正大广场playground,一个猛子接一
> 个猛子扎在皮球堆里。7岁那年我们在珠海,三个人比赛谁走得快,我俩甘拜下风。
> 9岁来上海参加外公外婆的结婚纪念, 话说你头上怎么能顶那么多V! 也是那次
> trip,我们去多伦路喝饮料,你对着铜像做鬼脸,完了还在二楼“训斥”一个吸烟男
> 子,自那时起就知道你的“胆识”可不一般!当然,胆识非凡的我们还是要hide and
> seek!! 还记得10岁那年在民阿姨家找复 活蛋么?某人在灯座上藏了一个,何等恶
> 劣的行径!!那年9月你身体抱恙,我们来香港,你亲自“指导”我玩ipad游戏,还 在
> Jacky熟睡的时候偷偷潜伏过去&#x2026; 去年海盐之行好像就几天前的事儿一样。我
> 们报了个小旅行团,你出发前“相中”了我的小黄鸭子,并把它妥妥地放在自己小挎
> 包里。我瞅了眼你的小包,梳子镜子everything真够organised! 一上车,你就把
> 人家好端端的团旗扎成了发带,还动不动 就折腾一下Jacky哈哈哈!路上,我听了
> 你收藏的音乐,心中不免有些吃惊,how peaceful,完全大人的做派嘛!小大人还规
> 劝我养猫,例举大量Trixie的事实企图打消我的顾虑,并约好下次来上海的时候帮
> 我去猫舍挑一个。这会看到当时拍的那 些“痴头怪脑”的相片不禁发笑,骨子里我
> 们都只活在了12岁! 今年2月再次纽约相见,你已沉静许多。不过&#x2026;一到抢红包
> 的时候,可就原形毕露呦!!记得你连着几把只抢了几毛钱,坐在那里发急地“not
> fair”,其实你资产不少啊!哈哈哈! 我读过《小王子》,他离开地球的时候和现在
> 差不多,场面有些伤感,但其实大人们不知道他只是按约定回到自己原先出 发的
> 星球而已。我猜这会你已经到家了吧,路上还顺利吗?走得匆忙,都还没来得打开
> 猜猜盒 可能觉得一路上有些辛苦 吧?没事,洗刷一下睡一觉又是好汉一条!写着
> 写着眼前不禁朦胧起来,你若是在,肯定又得说我should not check email at
> night。好吧,先聊到这里,今晚你我都睡到自然醒哦!
> 
> &#x2013; 超阿姨和Jacky叔叔


<!----- Footnotes ----->

